What we’re going to do now
is think of a real, running
company that I’ve picked up
randomly, that’s come to my mind
because I know one of the founders
and we’re going to relate
it to what we’ve learned,
to the process of marketing
strategy.
The company is G-stock, it is
a small software manufacturer, it is
a software specialized in the management
of inventories, purchases, etc.,
which allows you to better
manage your stock, your purchases,
optimize your operations,
increase your profitabilities
and so on.
And it is aimed at a niche, because
this software could be used by
stores from different sectors,
but it is actually aimed at restaurants.
You already understand the business.
Now let’s link it to the process
of marketing strategy.
First, we will see how they have
made the decision to whom to address.
The segmentation.
Remember that you can segment from
very different variables, geographical,
demographic, profiles, etc.
In the case of G-stock, which ones are
they applying?
Remember, we said they are
going to restaurants.
I think geographical segmentation
makes sense because they
may have decided to go
to restaurants in Spain,
for example.
I don’t know if they’re in an international
process, but it would be a decision.
Or at least it is a criterion to
be taken into account.
The restaurants.
They are segmented according
to variables.
This is the same as demographic
variables.
All of the sectors have
focused on restaurants.
Psychological segmentation by profiles.
Do you think it makes sense?
I think it is because it
is a technology company,
it is a software company.
Therefore, within the restaurants
have decided to go to the
restaurants that have
a management more, because
that, more innovative people
and more.
If you go to a restaurant that is
managed, very traditional managed,
as 40 years ago, probably
the G-stock proposal will
not be silent.
And a very important segmentation
here basic is that of the need
or problem that your target audience has.
And in this case it is very clear because
they have decided, within all the
functionalities that the software
has, they have decided to create
a software that is aimed at
helping you improve, optimize
your purchases and your stock.
Therefore, it is clear that the creation
of the product starts from there,
part that they are, part that they
have segmented the market
according to the needs.
And their target audience are
the shops, the restaurants that
have that need, who have that problem
of managing their stock better.
So you see how you can really
understand the strategy
of any company from theoretical
models.
We have identified the segments.
We have seen that it makes sense
to geographics, demographics by
the sector, psychographics by
the type of profile and also
segmentation according to needs.
And from all this they have
decided to go to the restaurants,
as we have seen, which is
the target.
The customer person is to turn
that into a person, it is
a tool that we recommend to do.
But here we will see, we will move
on to the next stage, a great stage
that is how G-stock is directed
to that segment or that customer
person who has decided to go
to which are the restaurants.
We start with the positioning that
is more strategic than the marketing
mix.
In the positioning remember
that what we have is to look
for our space, our hole within
the market.
The market is very
conditioned, first of all by
the customers but also by the
competitors.
Then within the software sector
there are big competitors
with RPs that include all the
functionalities and within those
functionalities is the purchase,
inventory, stock management,
which is what G-stock
does.
And in the software sector,
what it has is software that
is aimed at all sectors, all
segments and some that are more
focused on concrete verticals,
verticals in the function
of the target audience,
the target segment.
The vertical is the restoration,
the hostels.
I have already drawn
the picture.
What is the positioning that G-
stock seeks within this entire market?
It is very much related
to a niche strategy.
What you want to position is in the
minds of your target audience as
there are thousands of software but
I dedicate to what I am dedicated
to is a software that will
help you specifically to this,
so I am the best in this, in
stock management.
And it’s also that my software
is meant directly for restaurants,
so I understand you
better than others.
In this case, the positioning
strategy as I said is very
related to this niche strategy
that they have decided
to implement.
And finally from all this G-stock
that we are not going to go into
this has to go into, that is, you
have to decide what the tactics
of the marketing mix, by the product
that is the first of them.
What features do these software
have to incorporate?
The price?
Because the price you will have to
take into account the product, you
will have to take into account
who the target audience is, what
the budgets it has, etc.
The advertising?
How do you get to all these restaurants?
Well, you will have to combine offline-
offline channels and distribution
channels, because through them
they have decided to incorporate
local distributors that give
more reach to their software.